what I want to say in this video is
quite simple although I am having
trouble saying it simply in politics
very often one in the same institution
is both the greatest supporter of a
cause and at the same time its greatest
attractor I can't even call this a
paradox because it is so common and so
widespread right now the United Nations
a completely undemocratic institution
that is spending taxpayers dollars with
zero accountability nobody getting
elected etc United Nations agencies are
both the greatest proponents of ecologic
causes and really their greatest enemies
their greatest detractors we see this in
the bizarre contradictions in statements
made by the FAO FAO is the Food and
Agriculture Organization it is now 2016
10 years ago in the year 2006 the FAO
published a major report called
livestock's long shadow I will provide a
link below this video to that report if
you take a look at that report you may
be surprised you may be astonished to
find that almost every single issue that
vegans are still talking about today in
terms of the connection between ecology
and meat production is already talked
about it is already substantiated with
real facts with statistics with examples
in that report from the United Nations
10 years ago now you may also be
depressed by that fact because you have
to ask yourself if this has been so well
known and so well documented for 10
years why is it that nothing has been
done now the irony is when you come to
the conclusions of that report so you
get a sort of long series of statements
of principle facts explanations etc but
when you come to the conclusion of the
report it's the exact opposite of what
vegans would endorse the FAO still this
day is calling for increases in meat
consumption worldwide and their
recommendations are irreconcilable with
the facts and concerns that they set out
now totally lacking from that report is
ethical consideration it's an
environmental and partly economic
meditation on the meat industry I'm
gonna read one quotations very short
quotation from the report here but if
you just casually leaf through it you'll
see what is shocking the extent to which
things that are still news today even
for vegans but things that are being
promoted as new and shocking news was
already so well established ten years
ago quote in the United States livestock
are responsible for an estimated 55% of
erosion that's soil erosion 37% of
pesticides being applied 50% of the
volume of antibiotics consumed okay so
just a pause or more antibiotics are
being used for farm animals in total
then for human animals even now I wonder
think about that said I wonder if
they're including fish probably not this
is just referring to livestock it would
be much more than 50% if they include
the dumping of antibiotics forum fish
that are formed in these contained areas
32% of the nitrogen load and 33% of the
phosphorous load into freshwater
resources so that's referring to a type
of water pollution of dumping nitrogen
and phosphorus into rivers lakes etc
okay so just there you actually have a
whole set of stats the report is full
there's a lot more a whole set of stats
that are separate from and different
from what you most commonly hear quoted
now which is we tend to just get the
carbon dioxide number and we tend to
just get water consumption numbers as
opposed to water pollution they're all
important they're all worth knowing
about
they're all worth thinking about here is
the United Nations ten years ago giving
this seemingly authoritative and
respectable and scientifically validated
report on all these issues I'll just
close the
paragraph that I was quoting although
the effective load into freshwater
resources is not assessed for sediments
pesticides antibiotics heavy metals or
biological contaminants livestock are
likely to have a major role in these
pollution processes these are yet more
major major major ecological concerns
associated with the meat industry but as
I say paradoxically they advocate for
and they really make their money out of
the application of modern Western
technologies factory farming as we say
in short to third world countries that's
really where the FAL gets its bread
buttered whatever you want to say the FA
owes budget and its raison d'etre its
existence is justified by trying to
share with third world countries the
dubious advantages of imitating American
and Western European methods of
livestock production and so it's not
surprising given that bias that their
ultimate recommendations even within
this same report the 2006 report
livestock's long shadow the
recommendations are for increasing meat
agriculture for increasing the
industrialization of meat agriculture in
increasing efficiency and as I've
mentioned before on this channel
free-range is less efficient than
factory farming in terms of the
ecological efficiency the same things
that make these pictures so horrifying
of pigs living their whole life in a
steel shed on a concrete floor being
penned in an casian you know truly hell
like imagery those things do make the
meat industry more efficient in all
these ways in terms of the amount of
water consumed in terms of the amount of
pollution
it's absolutely immoral and terrible I'm
not justifying it but I just say the FAO
it's studies and then it's
recommendations the guidelines come out
of that ultimately reflect the economic
logic of industrialization of supporting
the greater intensification
modernization of meat agriculture but
ultimately what the what it boils down
to is
the Food and Agriculture Organization
with all of his data at their disposal
with all the signs of information not
just given to them but really produced
by them they produce original research
gathered analyzed published what they
are are suggesting is an increase of
meat consumption to 20 grams of animal
protein per day an increase now for very
few countries in the world would that be
an increase I shouldn't say for very few
people as a percentage of the world's
population that would be an increase in
India you can look up Wikipedia as a
good list of countries by meat
consumption per capita that would be an
increase for some poverty-stricken
countries in Africa where their meat
consumption is very low due to sheer
poverty if you actually look at
photographs on the internet I'll provide
a link for that also of what 20 grams of
meat protein looks like so this is meat
protein in the sense of any animal
source you can get 20 grams of protein
out of just one container of yogurt so
if someone followed these guidelines in
the United States or Western Europe they
would be completely vegan aside from
eating one container of yogurt you get
20 grams of protein out of one modestly
sized hamburger but again this is still
not the standard American diet this is
not what's normal in in Western Europe
work got Eastern Europe look at how much
meat they consumed in in the Slavic
countries that would be eating one
hamburger and then everything else in
the day being vegan so if you've looked
at the stats for what the standard
American diet really is they're eating
such enormous quantities of fat and
protein from dairy sources cheese milk
etc that for any for any
Everidge American these guidelines would
be a radical reduction in meat
consumption not an increase but again
the FAO completely undemocratic
untransparent institution obviously
there are some people of principle in
the institution who are struggling to
publish the logical and obvious
conclusions that all of the data at
their disposal point to and once every
so many years they
a report like this it's now been 10
years since livestock's long shadow
maybe this year we're gonna see another
report of this kind saying hey guys
guess what this whole thing is
fundamentally pretty crazy but the FAO
does fundamentally exist to increase
meat production so it's amazing they're
able to overcome their own bias but one
of the very sad things about the United
Nations and to some extent EU
organizations you know organizations for
the European Union is that we tend to be
reproducing all of the defects of
democracy without the virtues of
democracy mmm from my perspective you
know one of the fundamental questions
about war is not whether or not we
choose to go to war but of who chooses I
think it is definitely true that at the
beginning of the Vietnam War
a majority of Americans in a referendum
would have approved of the war but after
five years after 10 years after how many
years would Americans still be approving
of that war and with many of these
United Nations programs many of them
were created for reasons that made sense
in the early 1950s what seemed in a
transparent and honest and open way well
this seemed like a good idea in 1952 to
set up this agency to pursue these these
objectives and so on but as the decades
go by and their budget just increases
and increases so on again you can look
up this book Lords of poverty I can
provide a link to that also it's a
famous book dealing with the huge waste
of money
inefficiency corruption a lack of
transparency and United Nations bodies
you know these quasi governmental
institutions lack the ability to be
accountable to any sector of the public
in any country much less is there
something like a referendum now you may
say obviously vegans are a very very
small minority even vegetarians a very
small minority in the world
why would I raise this issue in this
context well it's one thing to say the
majority of people on earth
meet because they do but it's another
thing to say the majority of people who
eat meat want to see their tax payers
dollars being spent encouraging the
expansion of factory farming they don't
I honestly think the percentage of beef
eating people in the world if you ask
them hey do you mind if we tax you and
then spend millions and millions of
dollars increasing and imitating the
most despicable forms of meat a grocer
the vast majority meat eaters they give
you these lame excuses about free-range
and ethically harvesting and stuff they
themselves can barely stand the sight of
what this industry is and what it does
do you want your tax dollars to be on a
charitable basis expanding this industry
and supporting the imitation of this
industry the proliferation of this
industry throughout third world
countries that of course are even less
capable of dealing with the knock-on
impacts the environmental effects the
loss of potable drinking water
destruction of breathable air the
increasing and really frightening rate
of diseases that are resistant to any
form of treatment due to totally
irresponsible use of antibacterial
agents problems going on so know there
is a real question of democracy
you may not be getting so many videos
from me here on YouTube um today is the
day that I happen to have hit 1000
subscribers as I've said previously I
think about 200 people really regularly
watch my videos in understand what I'm
doing but for whatever reason my number
of subscribers is now at 1,000 hello to
everyone watching I want to give a shout
out to a certain IRC chat forum it's
incredibly rare that I find any forum
for vegans to talk to other vegans
that is not completely silent so in the
description below this video that has so
many links already I am going to give a
link to that forum I just discovered it
a few days ago I'm delighted to see it
exists it reminds me of what the old
internet used to be like the internet
used to be a place where you could meet
people and make friends that has gotten
harder and harder to do obviously in
some ways the Internet has blossomed
it's become a better place to do online
shopping and many other things but in
that respect you know the Internet has
become a less friendly place and it's
become less functional in my opinion um
on a strictly anonymous forum like
Reddit you ain't gonna make any friends
but that core function of socialization
that as I've said in other videos can be
the crucial first step towards real
activism real political change this
little forum is one of the few places
where I've seen that going on so I'm
going to provide a link to that and if
you see someone with exactly my name
with a body al all in lowercase with
hyphens then that really is me because
my nickname is registered however if the
spelling is even slightly different then
it's not me it's someone who's fake
pretending to be me if there are capital
letters in there then it's not me it's
someone else pretending to me so it's
only with that exact spelling
capitalization
you'll know you're talking to me